   1. PARTICIPATION RULES
Equipment
             For PC games, players may bring their own peripherals (keyboard, mouse,
              mousepad) with long enough cables and any necessary adapters.
             PS2 keyboards will not be supported.
             For mobile games, players are expected to bring their own phones and peripherals
              (headsets, battery packs, etc).
             For console games, players must bring their own headphones.
             Audio equipment will not be provided and all players are required to bring their own
              headphones with long enough cables.
             Team Names
             Team names will not be changed after registrations are closed and the draw is
              published.


Names – Team Names, Player Aliases
             A team or player’s name, icon, profile picture or logo may not contain any of the
              following:
             profanities,
             obscene or vulgar language,
             racist, anti-Semitic or inciting hatred
             gang affiliation,
             drugs,
             sexual material,
             offensive material,

      Using alternative spelling, gibberish or wrong spelling in order to avoid the requirements
      mentioned above is forbidden. Players or teams will not be allowed to take part.


Account Sharing
             Account sharing in online tournaments across all games is strictly prohibited. All
              participants need have their own accounts for online tournaments. If found, this will
              lead to the disqualification of the team and the banning of the offending player/s in
              future tournaments as well.
             Multi-clanning or multi-team participation
             No player is allowed to be a part of multiple teams or gaming clans. If a participant is
              found to be multi-clanning or in multiple teams, the player will be banned for a
              minimum period of one year. In the case of teams, all teams the player was a part of
              will be disqualified
Player accounts
            Players can only use the accounts they have registered with for the respective
             tournament.
            Playing under another player’s account, or soliciting or inducing someone else to
             play under another player’s account, is prohibited.
            During online tournaments, players cannot change their account details submitted
             after they have played their first match. This clause may be overruled by game-
             specific rules.
   2. GAME RULES

Pre-Match Ready-up (Warm-up) Time (LAN tournaments)
      The pre-match ready up time will be a maximum of 10 minutes in which the participant is
       required to plug in his/her devices, install drivers (ask for permission first players during
       warmup, half-time, or during one of the timeouts that the teams can call.
      If a coach is found in the match area or to be communicating with their team during
       tournament play then the entire team may be disqualified at the discretion of the Nebula
       Esports Staff and penalties for future tournaments also imposed.
      Removable USB Storage and Media Devices (LAN tournaments)

   No USB storage devices should be plugged into any of the tournament PCs under any
   circumstance. Failure to comply might lead to penalties for the infringing team or player.

Tournament Formats and Match Sets
          Tournament formats – double-elimination or knockout, will be announced on the
           tournament page on Nebula Esports.
          The number of match sets played during a tournament (best of 3 or 5 games) will
           primarily depend on the game title.
          However, in double elimination tournaments the finals should be a best of 5 games
           (exceptions can be made at the discretion of Nebula Esports).
          In double elimination tournaments with a best of 5 game series final, the upper bracket
           finalists will receive an advantage.
          In double elimination tournaments with a best of 3 game series final, the upper bracket
           finalists will not receive an advantage.
          At LAN tournaments, due to unavoidable circumstances, Nebula Esports staff may
           change match sets and these will be informed on the fly at the event.
          Team Coaches are allowed in the match area during the warm-up period.
          Unless specified below, under no circumstances can coaches be in the match area while
           a game is being played, including during pauses, half-time, etc.
          In Dota 2, one coach is allowed to be with the team in the match area during the draft
           phase. The coach is allowed to communicate with the team during the draft phase but
           has to leave immediately after the draft is complete. Thereafter, coaches may only enter
           the match area again once the game is over and are forbidden from speaking to the
           players in the match area during the match (including pause times).
          In Counter Strike: Global Offensive, one coach may only communicate with the players
           during warmup, half-time, or during one of the timeouts that the teams can call.
          If a coach is found in the match area or to be communicating with their team during
           tournament play then the entire team may be disqualified at the discretion of the
           Nebula Esports Staff and penalties for future tournaments also imposed.

Responsibility
                Players and participants cannot refuse to have their matches broadcasted by Nebula
                 Esports or any authorized broadcaster, nor can they choose in what manner of which
                 the match will be broadcasted.
Tournament Stream Delay
            Tournament streams will be delayed (approximately 2-5 minutes) to avoid player
             sniping. Teams that are found to be abusing a tournament stream/s will be
             disqualified immediately and the team will face severe penalties including bans.
3. PLAYER CONDUCT

       Match Area (applicable to LAN tournaments)
       The match area is defined as the area immediately surrounding any competition
        machines (PC) that are used during tournament play. The Tournament Staff may
        define the match area at their discretion depending on the nature of the event and
        its location.
       After a match commences, the only persons allowed in these areas are the
        participating players, Broadcasters and Organizers.
       No other persons including managers, well-wishers, coaches, etc can remain in the
        playing area once matches begin. Specific instances on coaches being allowed are
        detailed in Section 2 of these rules. Non-compliance by any such manager, or coach
        will be considered as an infringement and at the discretion of the Tournament Staff,
        be penalized accordingly.
       Players should not leave the match area during the pauses between games, without
        the Tournament Staff’s permission. Once a match starts and until it is completed
        players should remain seated at their terminal at all times.
       Players are strictly forbidden from eating or smoking in the match area or near any
        PCs.
       Smoking or vaping is strictly forbidden in the match area.
       Players are allowed to have beverages, but only below the table. Tables must be kept
        clear and clean at all times.
       Players are not allowed to bring any electronic devices, cameras or similar devices
        into the gaming area unless prior permission is given by the Tournament Staff. Such
        devices have to be handed to tournament officials before starting to setup before
        the first match.
       All mobile telephones must be SWITCHED OFF and should not be used during the
        duration of a match after it commences. Any player found to be using a mobile
        during a match (including during pause time, half-times, etc) will be penalized and
        the team may be disqualified from the tournament.
       Exaggerated loud noise and offensive language are forbidden.
       Paper versions of documents for tactical purposes are allowed in reasonable sizes
        and numbers (e.g. a notebook). Using any electronic versions, even on the
        Tournament PCs is strictly forbidden and could lead to the forfeit of a match.
       Tournament PC Setup (applicable to LAN tournaments)
       All tournament PCs will come installed with TeamSpeak (VoIP software) and/or
        Discord.
       A local TeamSpeak server will be provided by the organizers for best quality and
        minimal latency.
       Any attempt to overclock or in any way alter the default PC configuration for an
        additional boost in performance is strictly forbidden. Any such attempt will lead to
        an immediate loss of the current match and can lead to a disqualification from the
        entire tournament.
       Any attempt to download or install additional software, media or anything else on
        any Match PC by a player, before, during or after a match is strictly forbidden.
              Using the Internet access provided on Tournament PCs for anything other than
               gameplay is strictly forbidden. Players are prohibited from using the access to stream
               music, videos or other media.
              Game Configs/Drivers (applicable to LAN tournaments)
              Teams who require their game configs and/or device drivers saved on the
               Tournament PCs, need to upload via nebula esports web page
              Walkovers
              A team reserves the right to award a walkover if they are unable to play or have the
               full team present for a match ONLY during qualifier rounds or group stage matches
              Any team that reaches the semifinals or finals of a tournament and decides to give a
               walkover due to whatever reason will be automatically disqualified from the
               tournament and the next best team will be allowed to play. If the next best team is
               not present or a team cannot be contacted, the subsequent decision will lie with
               Nebula Esports staff.
              If in any case, there are two teams who are deemed suitable the choice will be made
               by way of a coin toss.
              The disqualified team will not receive any prize money of any percentage and the
               team will not be allowed to take part in a minimum of one Nebula Esports Ranked
               Tournament held in the immediate future. This suspension extends to the players of
               the team that receives this ban.
              Nebula Esports staff may at their discretion override these rules depending on the
               situation at hand.
              Indecent Behaviour
              Swearing or any kind of hostility, racist or any sort of abuse verbal or physical
               towards another player is strictly prohibited. This includes chat messages in-game,
               verbal exchanges, etc.
              Insults on IRC, IM programs, social media, E-mail or other means of communication
               will be punished if the evidence is clear and is brought to the attention of the
               Tournament Staff. Particularly severe abuse cases with radical statements or the
               threat of physical violence can result in significantly heavier penalties including the
               disqualification of the player or team from the tournament and/or future
               tournaments as well.
              At LAN tournaments, please mind your language during matches.
              At LAN tournaments, players are strictly prohibited to be under the influence of
               alcohol or other psychoactive drugs in the match area. Smoking, vaping, drinking
               alcohol or using any psychoactive drugs in the match area is strictly prohibited.

Insults, Racial Slurs or Harassment
      We have a ZERO TOLERANCE POLICY for any kind of harassment including but not limited to;
       demeaning language, threats, hate crimes, intimidation, non-consensual photography or
       recording, stalking, inappropriate physical contact, unwelcome physical attention as well as
       statements or verbal exchanges that threatens or expresses contempt of ethnicity, religious
       belief, sexual orientation, citizenship, appearance, body size, age, disability and gender
       identity.
      Depending on the gravity of the offence, significantly heavier penalties including the
       disqualification of the player or team from the tournament and/or future tournaments as
       well, may be imposed.
      Every participant has to show the needed respect towards other participants, the Organizers,
       Tournament Staff and Casters. The ZERO TOLERANCE POLICY applies to EVERYONE attending
       both LAN and online events, including but not limited to: Attendees, Press, Staff, Sponsors &
       Guests.

Physical Assaults (applicable to LAN tournaments)
      Any participant who attacks or physically harms another participant, a player of another
       team, a Tournament Staff member, another attendee, press, sponsors or guest will
       immediately result in the perpetrator being disqualified from the tournament and banned
       from all future tournaments for a period of 2 years.
      The team which the participant represents will immediately be disqualified from the
       tournament and banned for taking part in any Nebula Esports Ranked Tournament for a
       period of 6 months.
      Depending on the severity of the incident, legal charges may also be pursued against the
       person/s involved.

Compete in a Professional Manner
      Players are expected to compete in a professional manner. Throwing a match, halting play
       without cause or showing a flagrant lack of effort will be construed as a violation of player
       conduct, and will be penalized appropriately.

Property Damage & Theft (applicable to LAN tournaments)
      In the event of intentional or accidental damages to hardware/property, the person/s
       responsible is expected to pay the damages to Nebula Esports.
      Any attempt to make hardware changes (e.g. unplugging of peripherals without proper
       consent from the match referees, etc.) and software changes to the computers will be
       considered as damage to property.
      Intentional or accidental damage or soiling of any venue space, furniture, equipment will
       also be considered as damage to property.
      Alcohol & Psychoactive Drugs (applicable to LAN tournaments)
      Alcohol and drugs in any form do not belong and are not allowed to be taken into the match
       areas.

People found to be intoxicated and/or under the influence of drugs/other non-allowed substances
will not be allowed into the match areas. Their matches will be considered as walkovers.

      People found intoxicated and/or on drugs may also not be granted access into the venue
       and/or shown off the premises.
      Smoking is strictly forbidden indoors and is only allowed in designated areas outside.
       Electronic cigarettes are also not allowed to be used indoors.

Report any Harassment or Abuse (applicable to LAN tournaments)
      We encourage everyone to immediately report any sign of harassment, both to yourself or if
       you witness it happening to someone else.
      Report it to a Nebula Esports Staff Member who have tags clearly marked with STAFF on
       themselves.

Limitations (applicable to LAN tournaments)
      All the above player conduct restrictions are imposed upon entry from the gate of the
       Tournament premises (security checkpoint or main entrance gate). Any incidents that take
       place beyond the premises or during transit are not covered by these rules and Nebula
       Esports Staff or Organizers cannot be held liable for any such incidents either.

Cheating Of Any Kind
      Any player/team found to be cheating including but not limited to in-game cheats, faking
       match results, faking match demos, faking or ringing a player, playing with a disallowed
       player, impersonating a player/clan/organisation, will face severe penalties including lifetime
       bans from all Nebula Esports Ranked Tournaments. Specific game rules for cheating may be
       included in the game rules.

Competition Manipulation
      Offering money/benefits, making threats or exerting pressure towards anyone involved with
       Nebula Esports, its partners or sponsors with the goal of influencing a result of a match is
       considered competition manipulation.
      Any player found to be in breach of this rule will face severe penalties including lifetime bans
       from all Nebula Esports Ranked Tournaments. Team official, staff, management will similarly
       face the maximum penalties that can be issued.

Impersonation
      Impersonating any player, staff member, referee, sponsor or partner in a tournament/event
       will result in severe penalties including bans.

Disruptions due to players
      Any player/team who attempts to disrupt matches with any verbal or physical abuse to
       another participant, a player of another team, a Tournament Staff member, another
       attendee, press, sponsors or guest will immediately result in the perpetrator being
       disqualified from the tournament and banned from all future tournaments. Any other
       disruptions not listed here will also be dealt with depending on the situation.
   4. PENALTIES FOR BREACH

General Player Penalties
       Violation of the rules or failure to comply with Nebula Esports Staff may lead to the following
        penalties. Depending on the severity of the offense, levels of penalties may be skipped.
       Warning: After a warning is given during a game it will continue until the game is completed.
        If three warnings are accumulated then the team will be disqualified from the tournament
        upon receiving the third warning.
       Game Loss: Game loss given to a team means that the team loses the current game no
        matter what the result of that game is. A win would be awarded to the opponent instead. In
        a best of 3/5 games situation, this refers to the game that is being played.
       Disqualifications: A team disqualified will be ejected from the tournament. They will not be
        able to proceed in the bracket.
       No Show: A team that registers for the tournament and doesn’t show up for a match or pulls
        out of the tournament will be considered “no show”. This will affect their Nebula Esports
        ranking as this will reduce their points. In the bracket however, the scheduled match would
        be considered a walkover.
       Ban: In extreme circumstances, a team/player might be banned from playing in any single
        match (disqualified) in the ongoing tournament. Based on the severity of the violation this
        ban might extend to future Nebula Esports tournaments.



 Penalties on Player Conduct
        Players who are caught swearing or behaving in a hostile manner towards their opponents
         or staff or spectators will be issued with a warning and suitable penalty (eg: draft penalty in
         Dota 2, etc) upon their first infraction. Continued infractions will result in the following:
         forfeiture of a ban upon the second incident and forfeiture of the match upon the third
         incident.

Penalties on Unprofessional Behavior
        Players who are caught throwing a match, halting play without cause or showing a flagrant
         lack of effort will be issued with a warning and suitable penalty (eg: draft penalty in Dota 2,
         etc) upon their first infraction. Continued infractions will result in the following: forfeiture of
         a ban upon the second incident and forfeiture of the match upon the third incident.




   5. PROCEDURE
        Based on the violation or failure to comply the following line of communication will be
         undertaken to inform of any relevant penalty.
               – Firstly, inform the Player/s in question
               – Secondly, inform the Team Captain
               – Lastly, inform the Clan Leader (if it applies)
In case the Player or Team Captain wishes to dispute or challenge the decision they are free to do so
and follow the steps set out in the clause below.

6.EVENT SECURITY

        During LAN events, all players, spectators and visitors may be asked to walk through
         security scanners, searched or patted down by security personnel before being allowed
         admission to an Event Venue. This depends on the event and venue it is being hosted in.
        If any banned objects are found, the security personnel will be entitled to confiscate the
         object and to refuse the owner admission to the Event.
        Access control will be in conformity with the applicable laws and is aimed at preventing
         weapons or hazardous substances that may disrupt the proceedings at the Event and/or put
         the safety of the participants and visitors at risk.
        The following items are banned across all events:
                 – Drugs or other illegal mind-enhancing substances;
                 – Projectiles or explosives in solid, liquid or gas form;
                 – Flammable products or materials & spray cans;
                 – Pyrotechnical objects (fireworks, torches, etc);
                 – Any other weapons or sharp, pointy objects (sticks, chains, knives, etc);
                 – Banners or items bearing discriminating and/or provocative texts or expressions
                    that may be used in an attempt to disrupt the peace, or that may endanger the
                    safety of the crowd and/or may cause injuries or damage to people and goods;
                 – Animals;
                 – Drones.
                 – Any other objects (umbrellas, parasols, camera tripods, laser pens, etc) of which
                    the security personnel decide that they pose a risk to the public at the event;
        The above list may change depending on the restrictions placed by the Venue.



    7. RULE CHANGES
The Organiser reserves the right to ignore or overrule any of the above-mentioned rules in order to
make the competition as fair as possible. Teams and participants acknowledge the right of the
Organiser to modify the rules and regulations as and when needed such as when a new patch in a
game is released. Such modifications should be publicly announced and participants should be
informed of such changes.
